I don't like the
intro. Okay, we were talking about the philosophy
of examining boards and protection of the public
and the Federal Trade Commission practice rules
and so forth. What's your general attitude toward
the philosophy of whether or not examining boards
really are in the best interest of the public?
I feel that the duty and responsibility of the
board is to protect the public. That's
basically the main reason that the board exists is
not for any other reason except to protect the
public. And in examining these applicants,
It's difficult to
visualize, so to speak, but I think it's the
responsibility of the board to not figure out
necessarily who is the most capable individual
taking examination, but how far can we go with an
individual and let him have a license and he won't
be a danger to the public? See what I'm talking
about? Instead of eliminating
them or figuring out which one is the best, we try to
figure out How sorry can a man be and still not be a
danger to the public? It creates a problem. I saw an
editorial in the American Animal Hospital
Journal the other day. It was... I don't know
whether it was an editorial or a letter to the
editor. Of course, there is some difference
between those two. But the statement made in the
journal was... that he looked in the not too far
distant future for the only thing for an examining
board to do, if they had a diploma from a legitimate
veterinary school, that they were obligated to
let him practice anywhere, anytime. Do you think
that time may be coming? I would hope not. I think
that there should be some changes. I feel that
we should examine on a regional basis rather than
just a state. Possibly Arkansas, Louisiana,
Texas, Oklahoma, and even New Mexico could band
together and have an examination. And if I pass
that examination, I can practice in any of those
states. It probably never will come. I have some
ideas about education, too. I
don't know why I bring it up at this time, but I
firmly believe that our educational process
would be better utilized if we had an interchange
of students from these various veterinary
schools. Three or four students from Texas could
go to Iowa, and three or four from Iowa could go to
Washington, and three or four from Washington go
to Cornell, intermingle them. Then those kids
would come back home You know, every institution
is strong in different areas. And they could bring
information back from Iowa that would be
beneficial to the state of Texas. And we could take
information from Texas or background material
from Texas and it would be beneficial to these
other schools. And why they don't do it, I don't
know. But back to this matter of examination, I
think that this
matter of a degree, of a diploma from a school,
doesn't...
qualify you to practice, say, in Texas because you
may have a background, a moral background that's
not suitable, a type of person that we wouldn't
want to practice in Texas, even though you had a
fine record from the school that you come from.
That would be the... The main reason that I would
see to not just accept them on a diploma. We have had
graduates from A&M College
that
really, and I'm sure other schools have too, that
they'd rather they hadn't graduated, but they
thought, well, the board will catch them. We'll
let them get on through school, but the board will
cut them off. They should have been cut off right
down there before they got their diploma. Maybe we
shouldn't say anything about that. That's all
right. Well, it's happened. It's happened. And
I'm sure it's happened in other places, too. In the
growth of the Texas Veteran Medical Association,
it's, of course, grown with the number of
practitioners. Do you feel that there, to
begin with, our practice acts didn't have very
much to say about the practice, but in the last
several years the practice act, especially
during the 50s, became quite stringent, and 60s
also.
Do you feel that the TVMA really did An excellent
service in getting those things worked out
together with the legislators.
Specifically, what would you have represented?
Well, the greatest change in the Practice Act, I
believe, took place in the 50s. Up until that time,
there hadn't been much change in it since it was
originally inaugurated in about 1911.
At that time, the Practice Act, Paul Blunt was
instrumental in working with that at that time.
Do you feel the TVMA did the public a great service
in working that out?
I don't recall specifics right at this time. But
no doubt it was an attempt to kind of bring us to
modernize the practice act, shall we say. And it
probably has
deficiencies and things that we wouldn't prefer.
But any time you go before the legislature a
practice act, there's no telling what you'll end
up with. But I think that generally, by and large,
they've done a pretty good job on that.
I think you'll agree that practice has changed a
lot since you first went into the profession in
1939 until the present day. You've already stated
that practice was difficult back in those days due
to lack of equipment and medications and so forth.
Tell us about some of the specific things and
specific areas that you've seen changes during
your career in the practice of medicine.
There are just many things that have come about,
instruments, drugs, procedures, that have made
practice more enjoyable. I pointed out here one
thing in particular that was available that
wasn't available when I started in practice. It
was shortly after the war. That was the
introduction of sulfapyridine, which we used to
treat foot rot in cattle. I recall once I went out on
a call northwest of town shortly after
sulfapyridine was available. Up until that time,
we'd have to put bandages and use this old pow blue
and whatnot on these cases and change the bandage
and all for these foot rot cases, you know. after
self-pyridine was available, you take two ounces
of that and put it in a pint of water and give it
intravenously to the animal and turn him loose.
Not ever bandage him. And this old lady wasn't
going to pay me because she came out to treat that
cow and didn't even put a bandage on her foot. I
said, well, the cow got all right, didn't it? Yeah,
but you didn't do like you should have. You didn't
bandage it. But, I mean, that's just one example.
And here... That's one of those things you went up
against in practice. That's right. You get it
fixed better and they don't think you've worked
hard enough. That's right. They haven't worked
hard enough. Another thing that's come about in
these modern years is the discovery of what causes
wheat pasture poisoning. That used to be a big
problem to us. Those old cows, you'd push them
around and they'd become paralyzed and fight you
and all that. And of course, it's magnesium
deficiency. We've...
In 39, and even when I started into practice in Fort
Worth, we had the so-called X disease problem,
chlorinated naphthalene poisoning. We didn't
know what it was, and Dr. Smith had come up to see me,
and we'd have anywhere from one to two to several in
a herd involved, and he'd take cultures, and he'd
look, and he'd do this, that, and the other, and
then... About 1951 or 1952,
we had an outbreak of X disease, and catalept was
traced to cottonseed cake. They had... They had
sucked all the normal oils out of that cake and then
used mineral oil, incorporated mineral oil into
that meal so that it would cake, see? So they could
make a cake. And this particular mineral oil had
chlorinated naphthalene in it, which is a product
that's used to make oils stronger and more durable
in machinery, see? But it doesn't work very good in
cattle. But that was a big problem and a big
headache to us. And when that was finally found
out, I remember Dr. Smith was up here one day
talking to us after we'd found out what caused the X
disease and all. And he was talking to the head of
the Trader's Oil mill out here. He was in the crowd.
And he said, we... had worked for years trying to
figure out what caused this X disease. And then
this Trader's oil mill provides us with this
wonderful experiment. It was millions of dollars
that cost Trader's. But we found that out. And we
stopped the recurrence of X disease by removing
that. There used to be in old tractor oils and
greases. And those cattle would get out and lick on
it. And you've probably seen it in your practice.
Another thing that we know about now is oak bud
poisoning and acorn poisoning in horses. And we
see more nitrate poisoning and we have better ways
of handling it. Because of improved fertilizers,
it brought on more nitrate poisoning.
We used to see these photosensitization problems
that we didn't know what caused them. We'd see a
white-footed horse that would get an eczema and an
irritation on his feet. And now we know that it's
part of that photosensitization complex. The
treatment of coccidiosis of all animals, before
we had sulfa drugs, we were just fighting in the
dark. Along with other drugs that we have, we have
others now, but your sulfa was one of the first
drugs that was effective against coccidiosis.
bacterial pneumonias back before the war, that
was a big problem, but with the advent of sulfurs
and penicillin, well, your bacterial pneumonias
became a lesser problem.
We still have
a ways to go with treatment of viral resp in fact all
viral diseases now in vaccines we have rhino
pneumonitis vaccine for horses your influenza
vaccine which along with your strep bactrims
almost has eliminated the old distemper problem
in horses if immunization is properly carried
out. And think of the improvements that have come
about in vaccines, viral vaccines for dogs and
cats, just since the war. Would you write
Danny?
The coronavirus vaccines have come into being for
these diarrhea problems in caves. We now have
infectious bovine rhinotracheitis vaccine,
bovine virus diarrhea vaccine, which we knew
nothing about back when I started practicing.
We've gone through the the lepto complex. And we
now know the different strains or whatnot of
lepto. And we have Bactrins that are effective
against those particular strains. We have Vibrio
vaccine, which we didn't have back then. We have
improved rabies vaccines.
In the last 40 years, we've seen
the
diagnosis and control of swine ear syphilis
become more effective. I remember
about 1950,
I had suspected that I had erysipelas and some
swine out here. And the old federal veterinarian
in charge said, well, there's only been, now this
was as late as 1950, there's only been one outbreak
of erysipelas reported in Texas. That was down in,
oh,
way down around the King Ranch. Down around
Kingsville. And I said, well, I believe I have
some. He said, bring me an enlarged hock, you know,
those joints, enlarged joints. He said, bring me a
joint, an enlarged joint, and I'll send it up to
Maryland, Beltsville. That's where they, before
they had the disease laboratory out of date.
They'll send it up to Beltsville. So I packed it in
Borax or something like that, you know, and We
shipped it up there, and about two months later,
they reported back, yeah, you've got ear
syphilis. Two months later? Yeah, yeah, at least
two months. But your syphilis organism grows very
slowly. Yes, right. That's true, that's true. But
it took that long. It wouldn't take that long with
these newer, sophisticated procedures. But what
did I have? I had only ear syphilis serum. I would
give these baby pigs this serum. Then we'd turn
them out on that infected ground, and they'd do all
right. I'd turn a litter out there without it, and
man, they'd just wither up. They'd just dry up. You
know what I mean. We've eradicated hog collar in my
lifetime in practice.
We've made wonderful strides in controlling
anaplasmosis. A little aerosol or some of the
arsenicals of prayer was about all we had back in
1939 and 40 and 41 for anaplasmosis. And now... We
have vaccines to protect the animal and
antibiotics to control the carrier phase of the
disease. And it's much easier to handle. And we
have the tools to take care of it today where we
didn't back in the day. We've made tremendous
progress in the field of nutrition.
Our research has carried us into the field of
immunology, and we can pinpoint these
immunodeficiencies now that we had no idea what
was going on 40 years ago.
Laminitis in horses, treatment is still a
problem, but... The modern day x-rays and
research gives us some tools
to kind of predict. We know that we can produce
laminitis by,
researchers have done that by, you know, just by
feeding high carbohydrate diet. And they can tell
pretty well when the animal is going to come down
with laminitis. And through our x-rays, we can
give a pretty good prognosis on how the animal is
going to come along and
whether you've got a rotation
there or not. And we're much further along than we
were 40 or 50 years ago in the field of laminitis.
Bacterial diarrhea in the young, we have much
better prevention and control of that. Our
Clostridium infections, and especially cattle,
They were a real problem originally in the
unvaccinated individuals. And
even in the vaccinated ones, we had some of those,
then you had and
some of those others that were still there that we
weren't able to, until they got these new, more
sophisticated methods of diagnosis, we couldn't
couldn't diagnose it but they've incorporated
all those things into their into the vaccines now
and uh we don't look back we just give them the whole
wagon load and it and and it pretty well prevents it
we've got anti-inflammatory we've got
butazolidine banamine and all those things that
we did we didn't have those didn't have anything
just just an old aspirin was the closest thing we
had to it back there then We've had tremendous
progress in the field of urinary stimulants,
Lasix, Hydrazide, and those things for edema and
urinary stimulants. But the old Pastorella bug is
still with us. You know, they used to diagnose
hemorrhagic septicemia, which was your old
Pastorella. And we went through a phase there.
before the war where we thought it was in the
picture on pathology, and then they phased it out
and said, no, now it's come back. It's involved in a
lot of these shipping fever deals where you have
the viruses and then the pastoral moves in. But
it's been interesting to see that. Now, we still
have problems with the viruses, but we can pretty
well... control the straight pasteurilosis by
bacteria and antibiotics, of course.
Herd health is much better. We know more about
advising people on herd health today than we did
years ago. Internal parasites. We were just,
phenothiazine was just on the horizon in 1940. We
were just beginning to use a little of it. Before
that, there really wasn't much of anything, was
there? Just tobacco dust. Oil of kinapodium and
tobacco dust. Oil of kinapodium and tobacco dust
and nicotine sulfate and that kind of stuff, you
know. Which was no doubt better than nothing. But
there again, you had to talk about pasture
rotation and that sort of thing. That's right.
That's true. Antimidics just weren't there.
Right. We've seen old smear 62, which is
diphenylamine, you know, and black. It had to come
along to... treat for screwworms, but now we've
eradicated screwworms. Now, the modern
veterinarian, the young veterinarian, my son
knows not a damn thing about screwworms, but
wasn't that a great day when we got rid of
screwworms? Let me ask you a question. You know,
you've done the same thing. You go out and treat a
cow surgically or treat one with screwworms, and
you'd have to use Smear 62. And the smear was a good
word for it because you've got to smear it all over
everywhere, including under your fingernails.
Now, why did it take so long to figure out that you
didn't have to use lamp black to dilute your
diphenylamine with or anything else? You know,
almost anything will kill screw arms. You just
need a vehicle to take it in or even oil solutions.
Why in the world did Smear 62 have to ever be
invented in the first place? It goes back to the old
pine tar. They had to have something that looked
like pine tar. You know, we used to use pine tar
around them to kind of prevent re-infestation of
screw worms. And I guess they had to kind of
duplicate something of a pine tar nature. Lord,
no. But there are a lot of vehicles that can take
that stuff in besides lamp black. That's right.
But
they were looking for something comparable to
what they'd always had. They weren't improving on
the past. They were just duplicating it. Well,
zinc oxide, you know, sticks real good. Yeah. Put
it in that. That's right. Different color. Oh,
that's right. Very true. Very true. For us white
folks. But the day they got rid of that glaring
black stuff is a great day, too. Well, that's
right. Back there in those days, I'm talking about
before the war, we knew nothing about chlordane,
BHC, DDT, organophosphates. All of those things
came on later, you know. All we had back there then
was arsenical dip, crisodip, and the old
lacrycursalis saponatus, which is the BAI, the
old BAI. And tick tocks. Tick tocks. Remember tick
tocks? Well, that's what we used on ticks. It
didn't kill the ticks, but it sure made the dogs
irritated. Oh, yeah.
What was the basis for that? Oh, they had some
irritating material in there. They felt if it
irritated enough, if they didn't come back
with... Swell testicles that came back with sore
eyes. Yeah, yeah, right. I remember the name, but I
didn't associate the product. We've had
cortisones and antihistamines are new, and the
adenoviruses weren't heard of back there then.
Blue tongue in sheep was recognized in this
country in 1938. A vaccine for... The vaccine for
contagious exanthema of sheep had just been
developed down at the experiment station.
I was told when I was a senior that TB had been
eradicated, and the BAI said brucellosis would be
eradicated in three or four years. That was in 38.
We knew nothing of chlamydial, mycotic, or
mycotoxins. And all of those things were to come
after that. That's just a few of the many things
that occurred to me this morning. And that doesn't
scratch the surface. Yes. Dan, I'd like to ask you
another kind of personal question. You know, back
in the good old days, when we had all these
difficulties and problems and so forth and so on,
the clients didn't expect quite as much of you as
they expect of you now, did they?
Well,
they compared you to that quack, see? You had to try
to do a better job and sell them. And let them
convince them that you could do a better job than
that quack could do. Today, with
all of these television programs and all of these
stories about, I saw they had a, somewhere the
other day they had a horse with a,
somebody had put a false leg on him. so he could make
a breeder. And they think every horse that breaks
his leg now that you can put a false leg on him and
keep him going. I guess we've brought that on
ourselves, though, you know. The doctors have
been smart enough to say, well, now look here,
we're not sure about this. We're going to have to
send some of this into the laboratory. We're going
to have to do this and that and the other bit. We
thought we had to give a diagnosis right across the
table, you know, and we were caused by a whole lot of
that. I can't help but recall somewhere about 15
years ago, I think it was about 15 years ago,
perhaps a little less, Jacques Genny operated on a
on a horse's fetlock that had been injured in a race
for a comminuted bone situation in there. Did a
beautiful job of surgery, put it together, and the
dog and the patient mutilated itself heavily on
recovery from anesthesia. And the horse was
subsequently euthanized and got a tremendous
amount of national publicity as you're aware. Dr.
Wagenstein, who was an old, at that time he was
quite old, of course he's now deceased, but he's a
surgeon, a human surgeon from the University of
Minnesota Medical Schools, invented the
Wagenstein pump and so forth and so on. And he says
they certainly must be able to do better than that
and come up with a better way.
Of all the challenges that you have met in
veterinary medicine and in equine practice, do
you think there is a greater one than the sedation
and anesthesia of horses for long, drawn-out
surgeries?
I'm talking about, you know, fracture repairs
that take two or three hours and so forth and so on.
They have come a long ways in that field in the last
few years.
You know, anything I couldn't do with mag chloral,
I just didn't do it. But with this guacolate and
with the
respiratory thing,
they've improved that procedure materially. I
believe in this particular horse, didn't they use
inhalation anesthesia? That was on that mare,
that good mare that died, wasn't it? Yes, while it
was in the race, you know. Yeah, that's that good
mare that was going to win everything. Yes.
And I think Bill Reed was in on that, too. Bill Reed
was in on it. Uh... Yeah, I believe they did use
inhalation on that. That's just about the best you
can use, so to speak. Right, right. There are still
some of those that are a real challenge, right? Oh,
that's very true. That's very true.
There's a tremendous amount of research going on
in that field right now. See, you don't need to give
up yet. You can probably figure out something to
help that out yet. Well, I'll leave that to the
younger people. By the way, there's a thing
that we're doing to our students that is wrong. But
in a way, I guess we all thought it until we got out
and found out differently. They teach these kids
that they're
worth maybe $30,000 or $40,000 a year when they get
out. And these kids are looking to get rich quick.
They're going to retire after about five years. In
practice, well, you don't do it that way. You don't
do it that way. You know what I'm talking about. I
know what you're talking about.
You had some other investments besides practice.
Your outside investments allowed you to retire.
If I had to have depended just on my practice, my
wife and kids and I could have eaten pretty good.
But we'd have never been able to retire and go to
Europe every once in a while or take a trip when we
get ready. It's your outside investments that
takes care of you or keeps you in the poorhouse, I
think, most of the time. I was going to ask you that
question, and you've pretty well brought it up.
The next question is about the youngsters. They
don't seem to have the camaraderie or the desire to
get together and solve their problems mutually.
They feel, to me, they seem that the problems have
been solved. Now they need to ride off into the
sunset and do their own thing and that there isn't
any real need for the camaraderie, especially in
local associations. They can see where a state
association can do things, you know, on a higher
level with their seminars and so on. But there's no
need for the local people to get together to
discuss their problem cases or how can we serve the
public better. Do you seem to have any Feeling
toward that or observation also or not? Hadn't
changed a darn bit in 50 years.
But do you feel the youngsters have the
camaraderie that we used to? I
feel that
there's always been a a little petty jealousy or
something that prevents them from
sitting down and discussing the problems and
working them out as a group. I remember, let me see.
Yeah, it was right after the war.
46, 47, somewhere along there. I was going to get
our local association all involved. I was going to
get everybody in. Somebody said, well, Dr.
McQuistion,
he never comes to the meeting. I said, I'll get him.
I called him. I said, say, we've got a veterinary
meeting tonight. I'll come by and pick you up. And
we'd go, oh, no, Dan. He said. I won't go he says
they'll get down there and argue about what
they're going to charge for rabies vaccination
and then they'll all go home and do differently
tomorrow there there's just I don't know there's
something I wish I knew the answer to that question
you posed. I'd like to see local veterinary groups
be more better organized and more cooperative and
just get along better. But really they never have
in this area.
That's not good, but do you have any suggestions?
No, I don't. What I know is that down in our local
association, we had fellows like Elmo Crenshaw
and Vernon Dietz and Jack Gray. They were unusual
individuals. And we all hung together like just a
bunch of peas in a pod, and whenever things weren't
going right or we had a problem or we didn't think we
were doing client right. We'd all get together and
see what was wrong and try to straighten the thing
out. That's the way it ought to be. But the new
group, they'll come if you're going to have a
special technique, new technique on fracture
fixation or something like that. They'll get them
out, but if it's just to talk over how we can better
serve the community and so forth. Okay, I'm ready.
Prior to that stuff. But there are two things that I
kind of missed on the way coming up and I've done
several dozen oral interviews and I always feel
bad when I finish that there are a certain number of
things we didn't go over. One of them is we didn't
discuss your your family, your brothers and
sisters, and then we didn't discuss your marriage
and your family, and I think it would be well to
mention your brothers and sisters and what they
did and do, and also your marriage and your family
and what they did and do. Yes. Well, I think that
take my family first, not this family, but my
brothers and sisters. I
was very fortunate to be a member of a family such
as I had.
Not an ounce of jealousy nor greed in any one of
them. Who were your brothers and sisters? Well,
W.L. William Anderson. Who was named after your
father, right? Named after my father, and he's a
veterinarian in Dallas. And incidentally, in 120
years of... existence of the American Veterinary
Medical Association. I believe it's, well, it's
longer than that now, 125 years ago. There's only
been two brothers served as president of AVMA, and
that was Dub and myself. And I'm very proud of him
because he has been a very outstanding and
successful veterinarian, and I'm, as I say, I'm
Real, real proud of the job that he's done. I had two
sisters, a younger sister, Mary Jean, who is
married to Horace Lee Williams, and they live in
Rockwall, and he has been very successful. He's
retired now. He's been successful as a developer,
and he had a lumber business and a... concrete,
ready-mix concrete outfit. I had an older sister,
Virginia, who passed away last Christmas Eve. She
has two children. One lives in Rockwall, is Mary
Sue. She's married to Bob Smith, who is Oh,
Executive Vice President of the Federal Reserve
in Dallas, or some position similar to that. Mike,
her brother, is Assistant Superintendent. He's
just been elected to position in a high school over
in Arlington.
My wife, Frances, Frances Smith, Frances grew up
in Garland, which is only 10 miles from Rockwell,
but, uh, she was a year or two younger than I, and I
never did know her until, uh, oh, I was in the Army, I
think, before I ever met her. I tried to meet her old
off to Crenshaw as an old veterinarian over at
Garland, and, and, uh, He tried to introduce me to
her several times when I was down there at Tara, but
she saw old Dr. Crenshaw, the way he operated, and
she didn't want to have anything to do with the darn
brother, Marion. But I finally met her one night.
My cousin introduced me to her. Oh, she finally got
that out of her system. Yeah, finally introduced
me. Well, the thing of it was, it was during the war,
and all the good men had gone off to war, and she
thought I was the last chance, see? But you know, I
was pretty lucky. She has stayed at home and reared
two fine sons while I ran around all over the
country and tried to make a living.
And my older son, Danny, has a degree in business
from Texas Western University. He's been in a
number of positions around the country in sales
work. He was
up in Montana and about a year ago, when I gave up my
practice, I was ordering stuff, I was paying
invoices, I was the delivery boy for everything I
needed. And I was just handyman around there. And I
said, by gosh, I've got a harder job. I'm working
harder now than I did when I was practicing. So we
brought him back here to take over that job as...